hi I'm Ron Paul designer of the paulk
workbench a couple of months ago I
uploaded a video tour of my mobile
woodshop I'm Ron and today I'm going to
give you a tour of my mobile woodshop
the mobile woodshop is great but I still
need a portable woodshop I still need to
be able to set up a full-sized work area
but I have my workbench so after the
YouTube video went live I started
getting email requests for a set of
buildable plans much like the mobile
workbench in the miter stand and the
crosscut jig I declined to do that I
felt that it would be a lot of work hard
to justify a reasonable cost for it
and also that there's so many sizes and
shapes of trailers and trucks and also
some people may want to use this model
to build a shop inside of their garage
so what I did was create an ass built
model a detailed model of my mobile
woodshop and I uploaded it to the Google
warehouse so if you have Sketchup all
you need to do is open up Sketchup and
go to get model and search for bulk
mobile woodshop and for those of you who
don't have Sketchup if you're carpenter
or contractor you really should it's a
it's a fantastic tool and the basic
version is free and the way you do that
is just launch your browser if you're on
a Mac it'll launch it in your native
Safari browser if you're on a PC it'll
watch it in Explorer and so just go up
and do a search for Google Sketchup go
to the main page go to their download
section and your first option is the
free version you'll just download that
and follow the instructions on
installing it it's a pretty simple
process also take note while we're here
the training there's video tutorials and
self-paced tutorials great way to learn
the basics and even some advanced
features of Sketchup and also if you
jump over to YouTube and you search for
Sketchup
you'll find that many people have
uploaded video tutorials on every facet
of Sketchup that you
engines it's a great way to learn it so
if you run into a little problem they
just try to figure out what your problem
is and search for Google Sketchup and
look for it or search for Sketchup and
whatever your issue is groups or or
components or whatever and you'll find
videos on those while we're here another
little side note if you search for Paul
combs the first non ad that comes up
will be my channel get a fair amount of
emails or talking on you know talking
about my videos making comments and I
notice that a lot of people don't know
that I have other videos they'll find
one video and then not be linked in to
the others so if you if you search Paul
Combs you'll have it all the videos that
I've posted and all the videos I'll post
in the future be easy to find there and
a good way to stay up-to-date is to
subscribe to the channel the Paul combs
channel and then you'll know when I've
uploaded a new video so back to Sketchup
so after you've downloaded Sketchup and
gone through the install process you'll
start with a new file and it'll look
something like this and we'll delete
this model here we don't need it and it
has no title so you'll want to save it
and you'll just pick where you want to
save it and give it a name
and you'll notice the name changes to
the top so now you know you have a saved
file so all the work you do will be
saved
the next thing you'll want to do is
click on this button here get model
it'll take you right into the 3d
warehouse if you are using a Mac it's
using Safari and there's a glitch right
now where you cannot see what you type
but so you'll have to type blind
and that should take you to my model if
you go to click on the top there and
take you to the download and there's
also a link to to YouTube where the
where the video is you'll download the
model it'll ask you if you want to
download it into this current file and
you'll say ok
so just bring it into your model and
just click and that'll drop it and if
it's highlighted in blue like this that
means that that it's selected right now
I'm going to hit the O key for orbit
this just moves your camera view and
just a bit of housekeeping to make it
easy to use I'll want to drop it in this
corner after I make a copy of it so
first thing we'll do is hit the M key
again and that will give you this
four-way arrow or you can click this
button there on your tool palette and
I'm just going to take the model and I'm
going to click on it I'm going to move
it and what I'm going to do is hold down
the shift key and that's going to keep
it in the green direction no matter
where I put my move tool
L'Occitane green I'm going to tap the
option key on a Mac or the Alt key on a
PC that adds a plus sign to your arrows
and now you're making a copy I'll move
it over a bit click once let go the
shift key and then over here in the
lower right hand corner you'll notice in
the text box it says 14 feet I'm just
going to type in 40 feet to give plenty
of room now that's done I'm going to
click on the model we're going to work
on and you'll notice in the layers all
these layers will come in with the model
the check boxes indicate what's visible
we don't need to see the truck box we
don't need to see the text that we don't
need to see the roof
and so the next thing I want to do is
just get it down on the red-green plane
here so that everything will be working
off of that surface so I'll take the
move tool I'll click right in this
corner here and I'm using my scroll
wheel to move in and out so clicking
right there that's what I want to put in
this corner now I'm scrolling out and
I'm just going to drop it right there
and it'll lock right in and now what
I'll do is with the arrow key which you
get by tapping the spacebar or the black
arrow and the top of your tool palette
left click on it to highlight it right
click on it we'll make it unique that
just disconnects it from the original
model so you won't be changing that one
and then I'm going to right click again
and explode and you'll notice the group
box is gone and now you have the
of each one of these in here is a group
and then you'll break into those to edit
those so what I would do next is quickly
just draw the inside dimensions of your
truck or your trailer or your shop if
you grab the or if you tap the R key or
hit this little rectangle just come down
here on the green plane and just draw
diagonally it doesn't matter what you do
just pull it out a bit click on it and
that will create a surface and then what
you want to do is size it before you do
anything else in the lower right hand
corner just type in in this case I'm
going to make it 15 feet , 7 feet so
that's the interior dimensions 7 feet by
15 feet and then you'll want to double
click and that will highlight all of the
geometry right click and make it a group
and now it's locked up and so you could
start now just moving these cabinets you
can make copies of them you can let out
completely different than mine again
these are building blocks for you to put
together your trailer or your truck or
your shop in the best way to work for
you well I hope this Sketchup model will
help some of you guys become more
efficient more profitable and help you
enjoy your work thanks a lot for
watching